The goal of our project is to create a steganography coder and decoder. Given two images, we would like to be able to “hide” one image inside of another. Given one image, we would like to decode the image to see what may be “hidden” within said image. Through these two processing steps, we will learn about bit manipulation in regards to images, as well as understand more about the granularity of an image (and how it is stored). Given time, we will also be attempting to make a streaming hidden image detector, where given a stream of images, it will detect which image has a valid image hidden within it. A valid image here is defined as anything other than random noise. Lastly, we will make a user friendly interface for people to upload images to encode or decode.
In order to work on this project, we will be creating our own data set of images using our encoder. Once the encoder is set up, we will create our own data set of combined images. That will be accomplished through taking sets of other images and encoding them. We can then use our data set to test our decoder as well as our streaming hidden image detector. As far as libraries, we will be building our steganographic systems from scratch, so we will only be using numpy, scikit image and other libraries we use in class.
The user interface built in JavaScript (Node.js) is one of our proposed extensions. When the user selects the encoder, the user inputs two images, one to be hidden and another to hide the first image inside of it. When the user selects the decoder, the user would input input an image with another image hidden inside of it and the App would return the hidden image.
There are several steganographic algorithms that can be used to obscure an image within another image. All of them take advantage of high frequency noise within an image that can be modified without an observable change. The algorithm we will be using is based on storing a low resolution image (the hidden image) inside a higher resolution image (the base image) by flipping the least significant bits of adjacent values in the base image to represent pixel intensities of the hidden image. Flipping the least significant bit of a given pixel intensity can only change the color of that pixel by one hue, which is an imperceptibly change in color in a high frequency image with substantial color variation. To decode the 1
image, the least significant bits of adjacent pixels are concatenated together to represent the pixel intensities or RGB color values of the hidden images pixels. Another proposed project extension is the streaming hidden image detector. Images will be decoded and au- tomatically classified as containing a hidden image or not based on some process separating images of random noise from real images by way of noise detection, edge detection, or some other process.
